It’s important to remember:
our physical health affects
our mental health, and
vice versa.
What we do to our bodies makes
a big difference to how we feel.
Physical activity, diet,
alcohol, smoking and drugs can
all affect our mental health
and wellbeing in different ways.
So, let’s talk about them.
Physical activity releases
feel-good  hormones
called endorphins,  which help
us sleep and feel better.
It also improves our physical
fitness, which tends
to make people
feel better in general.
Even small amounts of
regular physical activity,
can improve your mental
wellbeing - especially if it’s
doing something you enjoy.
Physical activity is even
a recommended treatment for
some types of depression.
You can get active
at your own pace,
in your own way.
There’s no need to
join a gym or
even spend any money.
Simple, small changes
in our day-to-day
can make all the difference.
Taking a brisk walk
at lunchtime or walking
to get where we’re
going, getting active in
the garden, or cycling
once or twice a week
are great options.
If there is a
type of activity you used
to enjoy, think about
how you could pick
it up again.
For example, there are lots
of groups in local
areas open to all
levels of ability.
What’s more, studies show
that time in green spaces
is beneficial, so head
to your local park
if you can!
If you need a
little help fitting more
physical activity into your
day, try the Active 10 app
It helps you get
short bursts of brisk
walking into your day.
There’s also the fantastic
Couch to 5K app,
which will get you
up and running in just 9 weeks!
Eating better can play
a big role in
our health and wellbeing.
It won’t come as
a surprise to learn
that what we eat,
and how much, plays
a big part in our
physical health – which
can impact our
mental health too.
Ideally, we should aim
to eat a healthy balanced diet,
with plenty
of fruit and veg.
It’s important to keep
an eye on your calories,
and minimise foods
that are high in
sugar, fat and salt.
For helpful tips on
eating a better diet, check
out the One You website.
Alcohol, caffeine, tobacco,
and even drugs may seem
tempting when we’re
stressed or tired.
And, when we use
them to try and cope
the idea of stopping
them can feel like
it would make
things even harder.
But they can cause
more problems than they
solve, especially long-term.
All these habits can
complicate our sleep patterns,
and affect how anxious
and depressed we feel.
So try cutting down
(or even quitting).
And remember that
there’s support available.
Alcohol in particular can
worsen our moods, so
cutting down can really
help us feel better.
For more help cutting down,
you can download the
Drink Free Days app.
And for help cutting
back on drugs visit
the talk to frank website
As for cigarettes,
stopping smoking is one of
the best things you
can do for your
body and your brain.
You’ll breathe easier,
feel better, and save money!
Check out NHS.uk/smokefree
for advice and
support on quitting
Whatever you choose to do
what’s good for your body
is good for your mind.